Manual Test Plan for the Shiny Server Pro download evaluation page
URL: https://www.rstudio.com/products/shiny-server-pro/evaluation


Introduction:

The Shiny Server Pro download evaluation page is the second in a series of
three web pages users encounter when exploring choosing "Shiny Server Pro" from
the Product menu on the http://www.rstudio.com website. The purpose of the web
page is to describe the benefits of the using Shiny Server Pro as well as
promote the free 45 day evaluation period users have to try the software out.

The evaluation web page is encapsulated by a header and footer which also
appear on nearly every web page of the http://www.rstudio.com website and will
be considered out of the scope of this test plan. The purpose of this test plan
is to identify checkable portions of the web page's feature content and verify
that there are no visual or functional abnormalities at the user interface
level.


Test Environment:
To perform these tests, the user will need the following:
1. Web browser (recent version of at least one: Firefox, IE 10+, Safari,
Chrome)
2. Access to a qa version of the http://www.rstudio.com website to avoid
populating live website databases with junk.

Test Preconditions:
Assumptions about the system

1. Web browser is open and navigated to the Shiny Server Pro download
evaluation web page:
https://www.rstudio.com/products/shiny-server-pro/evaluation
2. Large browsers have widths above 800 pixels
3. Small browsers have widths below 800 pixels

Feature Content:
There are three main sections of the feature content including:
1. Text Explanation <div> located in the top left of the web page, includes
text and an image.
2. Signup/Download Form located on the top right of the web page.
3. Customer Logos across the bottom of the web page.


Test Actions:

Visual Inspection:

1. Element Overlaps - Check that the elements within the feature content
sections don't overlap with each other, both when the web browser is large
(1024X768px) and small (320X480px)

2. Text Explanation / Signup Form Width - Check that these two feature content
sections are horizontally aligned, equally sharing the width of the web browser
when the browser is large. When the browser is small, the web page should
reflow in a reactive manner, with the Text Explanation section appearing at the
top, followed by the Signup Form, and the Customer Logos last.

3. Text Explanation Arrow - Check that the arrow in the text explanation points
toward the signup form when the browser is both large and small.

4. Customer Logos Sizing - Check that the customer logos image resizes
appropriately and continues to be placed at the bottom of the feature content
as the browser width changes.


Automated Checks

5. Signup Form Absent Field Verification - For each required field, check that
leaving the field empty and filling in all other required fields and pressing
the Download button warns the user about the empty required field. This can
also be done, without using the Download button, by using the mouse to enter,
exit, then enter again the text input field, which seems to trigger the js
field verification.

6. Signup Form Invalid Email Address - Check that entering invalid email
addresses trigger field verification warnings for the user. Invalid email
addresses include empty addresses, strings without the at-sign ("@"), strings
with multiple at-signs, strings with at-signs as either the first or last
character and others

7. Commercial License 404 - Check that the Commercial license PDF link in the
Text Explanation section points to a valid file. md5sum check.

8. SSP EULA 404 - Check that the EULA link in the Signup Form takes user to
http://www.rstudio.com/about/eula/

9. Privacy Policy - Check that the privacy policy link in the Signup Form takes
users to https://www.rstudio.com/about/privacy-policy/

10. Valid Input - Check that after filling in the Signup Form with valid
inputs, and pressing the Download Button, the text the the Download Button
changes to "Please Wait...", and the user is taken to the web page:
https://www.rstudio.com/products/shiny/download-commercial. 200 page response?
Ensure the user data was captured in the database as it was entered into the
web form.

11. HTTP-> HTTPS - Check that if a user goes to the http version of the
evaluation web page
(http://www.rstudio.com/products/shiny-server-pro/evaluation/), they are
automatically transferred to the https version of the web page.


Expected Deliverables:
1. In case of an error, take screenshot or video of the test failure.
2. After running, test successes, failures, and image/video attributes should
be counted and entered into a database for data collection and later analysis.

Post-test Cleanup:
1. Refresh the database
